Elaborate on advantages and disadvantages of Julia (#52444)
JuliaLang/julia: doc/src/index.md

  * Talented, active, and welcoming community of developers
  * User-defined types are as fast and compact as built-ins
  * No need to vectorize code for performance; devectorized code is fast
  * Designed for parallelism and distributed computation
  * Lightweight "green" threading ([coroutines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coroutine))
  * Unobtrusive yet powerful type system
  * Reusability and composability—it is often possible to pass objects created
    by one package to generic functions defined by a different author
  * Elegant and extensible conversions and promotions for numeric and other types
  * Efficient support for [Unicode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode), including but not limited
    to [UTF-8](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTF-8)
  * Call C functions directly (no wrappers or special APIs needed)
  * Powerful shell-like capabilities for managing other processes
  * Lisp-like macros and other metaprogramming facilities

### [Disadvantages of Julia](@id man-disadvantages-of-julia)

  * It is difficult to generate self-contained binaries or libraries such as .exe, .dll, .so,

>     and impossible to generate small self-contained binaries with very fast runtimes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and prohibitively difficult to generate small self-contained binaries with very fast runtimes
```

That said, I don't think this particular framing makes a ton of sense - it feels like we're saying we're giving up on these things, when that's very much not the case - they're being worked on and are not fundamental tradeoffs. I think a framing of "here's some limitations of the current implementation that you should be aware of when evaluating julia" is what we're going for here, but "disadvantages" doesn't really convey that for me.

Author: Does [Add header text](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/pull/52444/commits/3c901e63e4d23c44497caf3252ef38530427ae29) adequately address this? I do like the primary header being "disadvantages" as a counterpoint to "advantages" and I do think these things are actually disadvantages for folks considering using Julia (even if not for PL theorists)

>   * Slow compile times - for example, it takes too long to generate the first plot

Reviewer 2: while the sentiment is certainly well-known to be true, I think the wording with "too" here is a bit vague and subjective

Reviewer 3: > it takes too long to generate the first plot

With what package? With Plots.jl it is 2 seconds on my lap top. Is that too long? :shrug:

Author: If you include precompile time, Plots.jl takes 11 minutes to give a first plot on a pinebook pro. That's longer than it takes to install python and matplotlib, look up a hello world example code in that plotting system, write code to plot something, and plot it.

language. In addition to the above, some advantages of Julia over comparable systems include:

  * Free and open source ([MIT licensed](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia/blob/master/LICENSE.md))
  * Reliable built-in package manager that automatically installs compatible dependencies

>   * Talented, active, and welcoming community of developers

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't put this in under

> some advantages of Julia over comparable systems include:

>   * Talented, active, and welcoming community of developers

Reviewer 4: Agree with @KristofferC. I would add that it is also difficult to quantify, so probably best let the links provided at the top of this file speak for the quality of the community.

  * User-defined types are as fast and compact as built-ins
  * No need to vectorize code for performance; devectorized code is fast
  * Designed for parallelism and distributed computation
  * Lightweight "green" threading ([coroutines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coroutine))
  * Unobtrusive yet powerful type system

>   * Reusability and composability—it is often possible to pass objects created

Reviewer 4: To appreciate the full implication, this statement requires understanding of the Julia language (and, likely, a background in programming). Suggestion: re-phrase or eliminate

    by one package to generic functions defined by a different author
  * Elegant and extensible conversions and promotions for numeric and other types
  * Efficient support for [Unicode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode), including but not limited
    to [UTF-8](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTF-8)
  * Call C functions directly (no wrappers or special APIs needed)
  * Powerful shell-like capabilities for managing other processes
  * Lisp-like macros and other metaprogramming facilities

### [Disadvantages of Julia](@id man-disadvantages-of-julia)

As of 2023, the current implementation of Julia has some practical limitations that folks
should be aware of. However, none of these are fundamental limitations of the language design
and all are under active development:

>   * It is difficult to generate self-contained binaries or libraries such as .exe, .dll, .so,

Reviewer 3: Why is it difficult? It is one command with PackageCompiler and for a binary all you need is a `@ccallable` in front of your main function. PackageCompiler will create a self contained bundle of all artifacts and libraries needed for you...

    and prohibitively difficult to generate small self-contained binaries with very fast runtimes
  * Slow compile times - for example, it takes too long to generate the first plot

>   * When using deeply nested types or functions, error messages can be confusing and too verbose

Reviewer 3: Should be improved with the new type parameter truncating functionality in stack traces?
